#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
The Basics
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Before we go any further we simply have to touch upon some very basic definition
s from physics, otherwise the rest of the doument will read as mumbo jumbo.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This section is for clarifying what we eman when we throw physics expressions
 around, like energy, density, or even temperature.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Energy
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Energy
\begin_inset Index idx
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Energy
\end_layout

\end_inset

 is an abstract quantity.
 Most of us think of lightning or heat when we say energy, but energy is
 also the term we use to describe what is transferred from an actuator to
 an object when performing work on it.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As such the defintion for the SI unit for energy (Joule) is the amount of
 energy transferred to an object by the work of moving it a distance of
 1 metre against a force of 1 Newton.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Another way of looking at understanding what energy is via the often more
 well known physical property we call Power.
 It does not matter if the Power is the electrical, mehcanical, or chemical
 Power.
 All the Power expressions are defined as the flowrate of energy.
 The Power in Watts is defined as the energy which is currently flowing
 through some surface, measured in Joules per Second.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
One thing that must be understood about energy is that it is always conserved.
 Or in laymans terms, this means that energy can not be created, and energy
 never disappears.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In Physics we know from Einstein that energy can be expressed in terms of
 mass and a cosmic constant, which allows us to convert energy into mass,
 and back.
 The circumstances required for this conversion are not present in practical
 thermodynamic systems, hence we do not need to model that complexity, in
 thermodynamic models, energy is a quantity which cannot be converted into
 mass, or back.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Mass
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Mass is an interesting property within physics.
 As we use the SI units of gram or kilograms for masses, most of us believes
 that we understand what mass is.
 However mass is not the same as weight.
 Weight is the downward force experienced by something that prevents the
 mass from falling, say a scale or a table.
 This means that the weight of something is defined not only by an objects
 mass, but also by the gravitational pull where the object is located.
 A real example which is easy to understand is that astronauts weights less
 while they are on the moon, and experience weightlessness while in space,
 but weights more or less the same as you do when they are on the earth
 surface.
 The astronauts mass remains the same though.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The proof of this is that the force required to spinning an astronaut is
 the same on the earths surface, as it is in weightlessness.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In thermodynamics we say that mass is conserved, we do not use our systems
 in the cases where mass could turn into energy, so this means that no mass
 ever disappears or appears within the system.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Power
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Power is defined as the flowrate of energy, but what does that mean?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Well to get a feel of what Power is, we will mention a fewe examples:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
In mechanics we can express power as the energy flow required to maintain
 the force that produces a motion.
 In other words, if we know the velocity or speed of something, and know
 how much force we are applying to maintain that speed, we can determine
 the power as speed multiplied with the force that maintains that speed.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
In Electrical Systems, we can express power as the energy flow required
 to maintain an electrical fields potential.
 In other words the potential fields strength is measured in Volts, and
 an electron flow (called the current) is basically an energy flow measured
 in Amperes, so the power can be found as the Current required to maintain
 some voltage between two points, multiplied with the voltage difference
 beteeen said points.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Heat is also a Power equivalent term, as it is also a measure of energy
 flowrate, and as such we can determine how much heat is transferred, into
 or away from some material.
 An object that radiates heat, and recieves no power, will slowly cool down
 till it reaches the same temperature as the sorroundings.
 Objects that recieve power from something, like a pan on a stove that recieves
 electrical power, will radiate the recieved energy as heat.
 If the rate of recieved power, and radiated heat are exactly the same we
 say that the object has a steady state, as we can predict that the current
 temperature and pressure is maintained forever.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
