#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
Fluid Properties
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Fluids are a class of materials which are usefull for transferring heat
 energy in a heat pump.
 In principle there is nothing special about fluids, as nearly all materials
 will turn into a solid if it is cold enough, and melt to a liquid, and
 then vapourize to a gas if heated enough.
 However we usually want to utillize a heat pump within a narrow range of
 temperatures, which are within a few hundred degrees of waters freezing
 point.
 We also want a very safe system, so we do not want extreme pressures in
 our machines.
 A small set of materials allows us to use them for the heat moving material
 as we need the material to be a gas when we compress it, and a liquid when
 heat transfer has been done on the hot side of the process.
 We call materials that fall in this catergory of usefullness for fluids.
 Some are pure, and naturally occuring fluids like Ammonia or Propane, and
 others are mixtures, where the mixture is made to achieve a specific set
 of properties.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Enthalpy
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Enthalpy
\begin_inset Index idx
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Enthalpy
\end_layout

\end_inset

 is an extremely important property to understand, if you are to discuss
 thermodynamics with engineers.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Enthalpy is formally defined as the internal energy of a system added to
 the product of the pressure and the volume.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Enthalpy comprises a system's internal energy, which is the energy required
 to create the system, plus the amount of work required to make room for
 it by displacing its environment and establishing its volume and pressure
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Enthalpy is most typically denoted with an H
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
